
<div class="slide">

h1. tchau

</div>
<div class="slide">

h2. Notes

h3. What is it?

  * partnered folk dance
  * popular in america, found in england
  * takes ideas from ballroom and line dancing
  * simple music, has a caller
  * usually 16 16 beats 
  
  
h3. Contra History

  * a mix of english dances from the end of 17th century
  * fashionable till mid 19th century, where square dancing and couples were considered cooler
  * often dances mix with walltzes or hambo's, swedish folk dances

</div>
<div class="slide">

h2. Doing it

 * Partnered, in lines
 * Dances last 5-10 minutes
 * Dance with everyone on the line
 * Live music, called.
 * Expected to change partners each dance


</div>
<div class="slide">

h2. Notes

h3.  Alternatives

  * we british have morris dancing
  * irish have riverdance / ceiligh
  * the welsh almost lost all traces of their folk dancing, and now have a few jigs and is mainly barn dancing

h3.  Close By

  * "Time Gentlemen Please":http://www.tgpdanceshow.co.uk/ - Huddersfield based dance troupe mixing hip-hop and folk dances. 
  * "Slubbing Billys":http://www.slubbingbillys.org.uk/ - A Morris dancing gorup that is based in slaithwaite
  * "White Rose Morris Men":http://www.whiterosemorrismen.org.uk/ - Morris Dancing in Glenholt road Chursh, like 10 minutes walk from the media center

h3. Notable

  * "Bampton Morris Dancers":http://www.bamptonmorris.co.uk/, 3 teams, spread out among different gardens
  * "Sowerby Bridge Rushbearing":http://www.rushbearing.com/ - I lived here =)

a good local directory is "Yorkshire Folk Arts":http://www.yorkshire-folk-arts.com/directory/teams_west.html

</div>
<div class="slide">

h3. Important 2 Person Dance Moves

  * Allemande - thumbs up spin
  * Do Se Do - around each other facing the same direction
  * promenade - man shows off the lady and walks her around
  
  * swing - ballroom swing, used to fill in time gaps
  * balance - a step towards your partner and a stomp then back
  * gypsy - stare and spin

</div>


<div class="slide">

h3. About the countries stuff

Welsh have floaty arms, Irish straight and Scots up.

h2. Welsh 

* Celtics
* considered 'sinful' in 18th centruary
* http://dawnsio.com/en/dances/welsh-folk-dance-history/


h2. Irish

* Ceilidh ( Key-Lee )
* Rigid arms, supposedly from the french.
* Big in the 2000's with Riverdance

h2. Scottish

* The have folk dancing and highland dancing
* highland dancing more of a sport, and most are solo
* 

</div>

<div class="slide">

h3. About the local stuff

h4. Demon Barbers Group - Time Gentlemen Please

*Huddersfield based
*on tour atm, in the south

h4. Britannia Bacup Cocco-nutters

* Rochdale
* Dance based on communicating by knocking on pipes, has wooden blocks on their hands / knees
* Blacks up, possibly for mining connections, maybe to disguise dancers from evil spirits

</div>

<div class="slide">

h2. Credits

Audio from "Beautiful Contra Folk Dancing":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pZubTju7g_s from the 1960s

Lots of ideas taken from "Still Folk Dancing - After All These Years":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1pDz_ZOG3g - thanks BBC4

</div>